---
layout: post
title: "How Not to Be Afraid of the Future: Web Development and Lindy Effect"
date: 2016-02-26
---

No one really knows the future,
but there are some pretty clear patterns worth exploring. 
One of them is human nature and Lindy Effect.
Powerful things when combined together.

Lindy Effect is a theory that says, in short, that the longer something exists, 
the more likely it will survive in the future. It's about things like
technology, books in print, old movies that people are still watching and
procrastination.

## Repeatable Patterns

Now we sell things on-line.
People can buy them using smartphones.
And anyone have one: ready to use, pocket size.
That sounds like a big, surprising shift,
but actually it's an effect of a pretty boring process. 

We communicate and sell since forever.
Once we figured out a phone, we communicate more at a distance 
and deal with telemarketers.
Once we figured out the Internet, we get e-commerce, social
media and email.
Once many people got email addresses, we use them to communicate
and sell on a large scale.
And once we know we can do it at low cost or no cost, we
overdo it.  

Everything that can send signals remotely is
used to communicate and do business. 

And it's something that supports our already present thinking patterns.
It's never like "reshape your brain or die".
Good new things are based on old, proven things. When something ignores the
past, it dies.

When you see Google Maps, you know immediately that it's a map. It looks similar
to the old ones. It could look different with todays technology, but would it be
better? When patterns are familiar, you know what's going on. 

Technology can survive when it's based on well established patterns.
